W-21066693-dataweave-transformation-policy-lds (#992)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.12/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-body-transformation.adoc

= Body Transformation Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: body transformation, transformation, api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy

> :page-aliases: api-manager::body-transformation-policy.adoc, policies::policies-included-body-transformation.adoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: For the future, these page aliases are from when policies were in different folders. I know cursor is probably what is adding them, but they aren't necessary for new policies.

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy name | Body Transformation

> >s|Summary      | Transforms request or response body content with a DataWeave script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>s|Summary      | Transforms the request or response body content with a DataWeave script
```

Reviewer: Make change everywhere it's used

>s|Category | Transformation

> >s| First Flex Gateway version available | 1.12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>s| First Flex Gateway version available | v1.12.0
```

.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
| `400` - The DataWeave script failed to execute or returned an invalid result.
|===

== Summary

> The Body Transformation policy transforms request or response body content with a DataWeave script. The script receives `attributes.headers` and `payload`. The gateway streams body processing. If the script declares an output MIME type such as `output application/json`, the gateway uses it for the transformed response. Otherwise the gateway keeps the original `Content-Type`. In the request or response, the gateway processes the body in streaming mode and updates `Content-Type` and `Content-Length` after transformation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Body Transformation policy transforms request or response body content by using DataWeave script. The script receives `attributes.headers` and `payload`. The gateway streams body processing. If the script declares an output MIME type such as `output application/json`, the gateway uses it for the transformed response. Otherwise the gateway keeps the original `Content-Type`. In the request or response, the gateway processes the body in streaming mode and updates `Content-Type` and `Content-Length` after transformation.
```

== Configure Policy Parameters

> The DataWeave script receives `attributes.headers` and `payload`. Declare the output MIME type in the script when needed, such as `output application/json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In Local Mode, apply the policy via declarative configuration using the `body-transformation-flex` policy. In Managed Flex Gateway and Flex Gateway Connected mode, apply the policy from the UI and select the body transformation type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=configFileTitleOnly]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=configFile]
```

----
- policyRef:
    name: body-transformation-flex
  config:
    script: <string>        // REQUIRED - DataWeave script
    requestFlow: <string>   // REQUIRED - "onRequest" or "onResponse"
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

| `script`
| Required
| —
| A DataWeave script that transforms the body. The script receives `attributes.headers` and `payload`. Declare the output MIME type in the script when needed, such as `output application/json`.

| `requestFlow`
| Required
| —

> | The phase when the policy runs: `onRequest` for the request body, or `onResponse` for the response body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether the policy transforms the request or response body. Supported values: `onRequest` or `onResponse`.
```

|===

=== Resource Configuration Example

The following example transforms the request payload to a new structure that includes the value from the custom header `custom-client-header` and fields from the payload.

----
  policies:
    - policyRef:
        name: body-transformation-flex
      config:
        script: |
          {
            "id": attributes.headers.'custom-client-header',
            "username": payload.name ++ payload.surname
          }
----

To transform the response body and set a custom output format such as XML, declare the output and use `requestFlow: onResponse`:

----
  policies:
    - policyRef:
        name: body-transformation-flex
      config:
        script: |
          output application/xml
          ---
          {
            "trace": payload.headers.'X-Amzn-Trace-Id',
            "custom-data": "custom-value"
          }
        requestFlow: onResponse
----

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
| Parameter | Description
| Policy type | Body transformation
| Script | The DataWeave script that transforms the body.

> | Request flow | The flow where the policy applies: request or response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Request flow | Whether the policy transforms the request or response body.
```

> | Method & Resource conditions | The specific methods and resources to which the policy is restricted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
